# From darkness to light: a quantitative image analysis original. 

**#Abstract**\
In this project we focused on establishing a comprehensive image analysis pipeline using Python that included, cell segmentation, training a cellpose model, measuring the intensity and eventually tracking the movement of the cells. We compared the custom model with the pretrained model that cellpose provides. The segmentation was done using cellpose and the tracking was performed using trackmate. The results of this research was that the ...model resulted in more acurate segmentation than the ... model. 

**#Introduction**\
The innovations in the field of single cell technologies have made it possible to perform high-throughput profiling of many different celltypes (https://www.nature.com/articles/s41576-023-00586-w ). This causes an enormeous increase of data that needs to be processed accordingly. Therefore, establishing a comprehensive pipeline is of the essence in these cases. Python is a useful tool to enable this aim. Therefore in this paper we aimed to produce a comprehensive pipeline for single cell image analysis using Python. Considering that we use images as our data source the overall pipeline consisted of several tasks. Namely, cellsegmentation, training a cellpose model, measuring the intensity of the protein of interest and other cell components and finally celltracking. The data consisted of images obtained by a high-resolution confocal microscope (90 nm x 90 nm pixels, 1024x1024 image size). The cells that were used were probed with fluorescent markers: one for the protein of interest β-catenin (green) and for the nuclei (red). \

β-catenin is a protein that is involved in cell-cell interactions, it is therefore found in the cell boundaries. However, β-catenin also plays a role in gene regulation, which causes an increase of the protein in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus. This increase can be experimentally induced by using a specific drug that inhibits β-catenin degradation or by inducing the so-called Wnt pathway using Wnt ligands. \

The data consisted of a control dataset, this resembles the "normal" situation without stimulation and a sample dataset which is the situation with stimulation. The aim of this pipeline is to measure the average fluorescence intensity of β-catenin across three different compartements, namely the nucleus, the cytoplasm and the cell boundary. To accomplish this, accurate segmentation of both of the channels was essential. To handle the complex shapes of the cells and the varying intensity contrasts of the cells and nuclei, we used the robust Cellpose. Cellpose is a deeplearning based method that is written in Python. It has a useful API, which also allows for training of custom models based on user data. We used this to train our own segmentation model, to improve the accuracy of segmentation. Using these segmentated masks, we calculated the measurement masks of the different compartements to eventually measure the average fluorescence intensity. 
